From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 28. Recorded
live Thursday, August 12th, 2010. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
Tellerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Jeff Wilcox from
the Silverlight team about developing
on the windows phone seven.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes, brought to you
today with a lovely Colt.
So forgive my one octave
down voice and I'm on
the phone today with Jeff Wilcox.
Jeff is a software development
engineer at Microsoft and works
on the phone. What I
call we call the windows
phone seven series. How are
you Jeff? Doing great. Thanks
for having me on. No
worries. What was your specific
area that you focused on?
You work on the phone,
right? You work on server
light. What are you? What's
your job? Well, I'm actually
on the silver proper team.
So my job is to
make sure that Silverlight just
works great on the phone.
Cause it's the real silver
light. It's really not that
different from what's on the
desktop. So, you know, my
job is to work on
improving the performance and kind
of sharing the message on
how to make your apps.
You're running a lot better
on the phone. So that's
interesting. So there's this, there's
the silver light team and
that's the same team that
delivers silver light on the
web. Right. And then there's
a low level phone guys.
How was that? How was
that organized? I mean, do
you work a little bit
on phone stuff and you
work a little bit on
web stuff? Yeah. Well, that's
not, that's not calling low
level phone guys, but it's
definitely, you know, there's this,
I guess people don't really
care about the organizations that
Microsoft, you know, but when
we got the silver team
and we are looking at
everything we do, we've got
the plugin, we're doing, you
know, the phone story here,
then there's this app platform
team. And they're working on
making sure that, you know,
the whole windows phone is
really the best way to
build apps and they're part
of the whole windows phone
organization. So it's kind of
this big partnership with all
three of these teams working
together to bring this to
developers. So if you do
something on Silverlight, if you
improve something, like you said
that you work on performance,
is that something that, where
you can improve something in
Silverlight and then you'll get
that improvement in both places?
Yeah. You know, it's actually,
it goes both ways on
the phone. We've actually kind
of changed how animations work.
They actually are a lot
more smooth and robust and
this work we're hoping in
the future to bring back
the silver light. So it's
kind of a two way
street then at the same
side on the phone, it's
kind of based on Silverlight
free. Cause we're working on
at the same time as
silver Lake for, but we
had to start somewhere. So
we actually brought a lot
of features from Silverlight four
to the phone directly. So
is it kind of like
several like three and some
extra stuff? Yeah. It's like
Silverlight 3.7 I think is
kind of our fun name
for it. 3.7. Okay, cool.
Yeah. But the good news
is if you built so
blade three apps, it's exactly
the same and that's even
better. Yeah. I've, I've got
all the tools I've installed
on my, on my system
here. And I'm not really
a, a Silverlight person quite
yet, but I'm, I'm trying
to get my head around
this because I'm a guy
that gave me a phone.
So I've actually got an
actual prototype phone. One of
these developer phones, I guess
this phone will never be
made, but it's a nice
little, a developer type phone.
You know, if you tell
people you have that phone,
people just don't want you
to run their apps and
they're going to want to
see it. So It's funny,
everyone was talking about like,
Oh, I wish I had
a phone. I wish I
had a fallen. I was
like, well, you know, you
have a great emulator. And
they were like, no, but
I just want to see
it. And I was like,
Oh, that's silly. But then
I, I got my app
running on the phone yesterday
and it was just like,
I don't know. I was
just kind of giddy. There's
something about the phone itself.
Like the idea that I
affected a computer outside my
computer, you know, it's so
stupid, but that's one of
the things that's great about
any kind of embedded systems
work or any, any work
that involves additional hardware. Getting
that to, to, to, you
know, getting a pixel, the
wiggle or whatever is, is
extremely satisfying. I think part
of it is the touch.
Right. You know, we're just
so used to using that
mouse on the computer and
it's just a total different
world once you get it
running on that phone. Yeah.
It is. I've got a
touch monitor, but, but the
via the emulator and the
touch, it's just not the
same. And actually seeing my
icon on the, on the
screen there is, is pretty
insane. Yeah. But That's actually
windows phone, you know, running
in your emulator. So it's
really similar. It's just an
x86 build of the alas.
So there's a lot of
similarities there. So I mean,
he really is the OSTP.
Right. Who use it? It's
not faking anything. Yeah. It's
an actual build when we
build off, you know, a
windows phone built on machine,
we're actually building an X
86 what's in the emulator
and then the own arm,
which is what goes on
a phone. Hmm. Okay. Some
of the things that I'm
noticing that I'm, I've not
been able to get working
quite yet. And this is
mostly because I haven't been
reading too much is some
of the subtle animations. Like
I've got a nice list
going and I've modified the
list and I've added some
nice icons and you know,
all that stuff is really
pretty straightforward. Although I have
a, I'm not a designer.
I have a very Spartan
design here. Well, yeah, it
is a little rough. I
want to have some animations
from like page to page.
So I've started out with
the basic list of stuff
and then the details, right.
Cause I'm porting a, an
offline reader application from the
iPhone. So you're, you're, you
know, you've got your list
of things that you've got
in your offline reader cash
and you click a button
and then it goes forward.
But right now it it's
pretty basic. When I, when
I find on this fire
at the emulator here and
then the list kind of
like goes up and I've
got the nice scroll, the
stuff that was all for
free. Cool. And then when
I click, it just goes,
boom. And I'm right there.
I want to get a
full page animation. How does
that work? I have like
my main page dot XAML
and I have my details
page dot XAML. I understand
how to do animations within
a page, but how do
I animate between two pages?
Well, we've been having a
lot of customers up in
Redmond, kinda stuffing through the
same problem. And I think
everyone wants something to just
drop right in there. You
know, you just want to,
either in case they're going
to control or put a
control on your page, it
takes care of that. And
the important messages someone's going
to do that. I hope.
Yeah. Yeah. In the meantime,
you can totally flare up
blend and you can hook
up, you know, your own
storyboard for the actual page
and that's no problem, but
unfortunately there's no just wait
today and say, Hey, you
know, make this really cool
animation. So it's something we're
aware of. And I know
that there's a couple of
guys that are trying to
actually take all the windows,
phone animations and document them.
So the windows phone documentation
will have a lot of
the stuff you need to
do that, but it's not
there today. Sorry. No, no,
of course I'm not, I'm
not, I'm not as worried
about what's here today and
what's there tomorrow. Cause I
recognize that people will, that,
you know, I'm sure that
there's missing stuff and it'll
be there cause it's not
out yet, but I'm more
interested in the, in the,
in the internal details, in
the sense of, you know,
there's all these different UI
design guidelines and you can
go up and download these.
There's like a PDF all
about how your application should
behave in a Metro world.
And there's like the turnstile
animation and the rotation, you
know, all these kinds of
things that you see as
you move around the phone.
If I make a storyboard,
right. That's the basis of
an animation in Silverlight am
I correct? Yep. So if
I go and do like
a, a forward turnstile animation
where I click and the
page kind of turns away
and the new one turns
in are, are these, like,
I can see how I
can draw the animation. Like
you said, I can go
into blend or I can
go on and find various
people's blogs, but is this
like in the onload event?
Or how do you know,
how do you make it
smooth? Is there like a,
an event that I'm not,
I'm not seeing or a
place to hook in for
each of these pages? I
assume that there's a, I'm
about to leave and animate
out and here I come
animate in. Yeah. Yeah. So
there's navigation events on the
pages and that's part of
the story. And I think
a lot of it's going
to be fine tuning. So
you click on the button,
you queue up your animation
immediately and then you can
actually monitor when that storyboard
completes and then use that
to kick off the next
navigation. It's a lot easier
than it sounds. But the
general idea is that this
is happening. This has happened
kind of events. Yeah. Yup.
Yeah. It's something where I
think we need to get
guidance out to people on
here's the perfect way to
do that turnstile and it'll
be real easy at that
point. Yeah. I'm sure all
of that will be on.
My name is Dan. I
know lots of people are
working on things. So when
I click on something, I
use this thing called the
navigation service. Is that right?
Yep. Yeah. That's a property
of actually lives right on
your page. Oh really? Yeah.
I noticed that when I
navigate, I'm actually navigating to
Auri, which was funny because
it reminded me that I
really am in Silverlight. Do
you know what I'm saying?
Yeah. It should be kind
of familiar if you're using
the silver light navigation service
today. Right. And exactly I'm
saying navigation, service dot navigate,
take me to details and
I'm passing that, that information
in the URL. So it's
almost like every application is
like a little web, a
little web browser. Yeah, totally.
You know, you have your
example files that are sitting
right there in your project
and you can navigate to
those that's easy, but you
know, a big things about
improving the performance of your
apps. How do you just
make it quicker and how
do you improve your startup
time? And you can actually
put those animal pages and
you know, another project inside
that same application, right? And
when you do that, that
deal will actually be delay
loaded until, you know, until
you actually need it, we'll
keep it to the side.
And so that, that whole
year I send texts is
a way to actually improve
performance in your application. You
move that secondary content into
that other project and it
just works well. That's interesting
that you bring that up
because performance was one of
the things I want to
talk about when I start
my application up. Now there's
a little clock that appears
for just a moment. And
then my app starts up.
It's actually inside your project,
Scott. No crappy. I was
like, I was like, I
thought you were only telling
me the button to push
to fix that. No, no.
So that's actually the splash
screen. It's totally up to
you to, you can have
your branding there. You could
have make, make it look
like your first page of
the app. There's a lot
you can do there and
you don't really have to
have a splash screen that
you probably want one O
clock. And I'm like, I
wonder what that clock is.
Well, you know, I'm not
sure exactly which build you're
using, but we've done some
really big improvements on perf
you know, since the beta
and hopefully, you know, people
are just going to see
the goodness we've been working
real hard on improving performance
and splash screen as part
of that. Okay. So I
can put, I can put
up whatever I, whatever want,
but you said something Interesting
there where you said that
if there's XAML pages that
I'm not going to need
or maybe I'll need them
later, is there, you said
there's benefit for putting that
in another DLL? Oh yeah,
totally. So when you started
your application, it's actually, you
know, it's already on the
phone. All those files are
just sitting there alongside, so
we're going to start up
your main app by reading
that whole deal well into
the whole CLR process. If
you can have that split
up across a couple of
different files, then we'll just
take that first one and
keep the others, you know,
until you need them. Ah,
okay. That's interesting. Cause my
application will primarily have its
main screen and it's detailed
screen settings would be like
an example of a complicated
page that probably won't be
used very often. Yeah. Settings
totally is a great candidate.
Just put it along to
the side. Okay. Okay. So
then any delays would be,
Would any Easter eggs in
there and put the Easter
egg somewhere else? Right? Anything
that's going on that that's
going to load up big
animations or anything complicated. Yeah.
So do you actually have
your project open right now
on your computer? I am
looking at, do you have
a splash screen image that
JPEG in your project? Yeah.
So I'm looking in my
project, splash screen image dot
JPEG up and there it
is. I double click and
I there's my clock. All
right. I didn't even read
that. Sorry. You can put
a picture of yourself up
there and you have the
best app. I mean, honestly
I think I'd rather not
have a splash me at
all. It shows up for
just an instant and it
just, it lashes for half
a second. And I wonder,
do I want a big
startup? I really want my
application to feel like it
fits in with everything else.
You know, when I launch
mail, it just comes up.
And when I launched the
browser, it just comes up.
So that's going to be
an interesting challenge. I don't
want to spend a lot
of time. Yeah. Well, splash
screen. You don't need to
have one. I think if
your apps are really big,
you know, if you were
doing a huge movie experience
and you were loading, you
know, 30 different projects up
then in that case, you
probably want one because psychologically
you kind of trick people.
You say, Hey, maybe it
wasn't 700 milliseconds. Maybe it
was 200. It's kind of
hard to tell. Yeah. That's
an interesting point. One of
the things, one of the
things my application's going to
do is do stuff in
the background because I want
it to start up and
then immediately start downloading things.
Definitely. How much thought am
I going to have to
put into performance? I know
these are, these are fast
little things. I think they're
like gigahertz processors or whatever.
I mean, there there's a
hardware spec for these things.
And I, I I've, I've
got the little pre-build phone
here and it's, it's, it's
very, very fast. I haven't
had any trouble with the
speed, but I'm wondering what
are some gotchas that I'm
going to need to watch
out for that so that
I don't show this down
inadvertently. Yeah. We know, to
be honest, it's, it's a
completely different world than, you
know, Silverlight for the desktop.
And hopefully people understand that.
I think people do, you
know, it's one gigahertz versus,
you know, an eight core
machines. It's just rocking a
lot of memory. So there's
actual work. People are going
to need to do once
they start getting devices to
just, you know, try the
animals out and make optimizations.
And we've shared a, there's
actually a white paper up
it's public today and it's
all about performance. And that's
really something people should check
out because we've detailed probably
10 or 15 different steps
that just really will make
your apps that much better
than on simulate. You never
had to worry about at
all. Yeah. I saw this
creating high-performance serverless applications on
the phone. It must, it
must be chaos over there.
I mean, you're about to
launch something and you're releasing
stuff as fast as you
can. And then white papers
are coming out and I
mean, this must be insane.
I'm surprised you got it.
Well, you know, it's really
nice that we're able to
share that white paper right
now because you know, some
developers that we've actually met,
they, they were Silverlight developers
for a long time and
before that WPF. And so
they just never thought about,
you know, well, how do
I have the best animation
that's going to look smooth?
Because honestly, sometimes you just
get really happy and blend
and you start pulling things
together and you can make
complex animations with five or
six layers. And that's really
difficult for the phone's hardware
to handle. Yeah. Yeah, no,
on a, on a big
machine, like I've got a
hexachord I guess it's called
a six core machine. What's
that? Yes. The nine of
the X six dream magical
super version. Yeah. I guarantee
you that your run, you
know, your emulator experience is
going to be a little
different on that machine then
when it's on the phone.
So I'm glad you have
a phone there. Oh, is
that interesting? Are you saying
that it might run just
as fast, you know, like
too fast, it might be
just not representative at all
because it's so fast Close,
but you know, we don't
really throttle to emulate or
that much it's really a
big problem to solve. And
so right now it's called
an emulator for a reason.
You know, it's not, it's
not the windows phone inside
your computer. It's just emulating,
you know, the iOS and
the experience. And so, you
know, your computer is really
powerful. So you might have
what looks like a frame
rate of 60 frames, a
second, you know, on the
computer and on the phone,
it might be 40. So
you'll just need to do
optimizations. Once you have that
phone in hand, This is
the part of the show
where I mock you while
actually Tellerik mocks us your
applications that you're testing dependent
on external systems over which
you have no control. Maybe
you're being slowed down by
those systems, their lack of
availability. Responsiveness. Do you want
to do TDD? Right? Our
friends at Tellerik help you
solve some of those problems
with their newest mocking tool,
just mock to let you
do fast, simple controlled unit
tests, independent of external resources
like databases, web services, proprietary
code, unlike some marketing tools,
just mock works with non-virtual
methods, seal classes, static methods,
giving you complete control of
your code. You can get
more details. You can download
just mock at tellerik.com/just mock.
And don't forget to thank
Tellerik for supporting Hanselman it's
on their Facebook fan page,
facebook.com/tellerik. Thanks a lot. One
of the things I wanted
to ask you about was
that when I'm running a
desktop application, there's the UI
thread and then there's other
background threads, but there's two
threads that are kind of
the two main threads inside
of a of Silverlight. Can
you talk about that a
little bit? Because that's been
something that's been hard for
me to get my head
around. So one of the
best, you know, the biggest
wins we've had for silver
light for the windows phone.
So it's called a composite
or a thread and its
only job is to do
really smooth animations. And it's
separate from that user interface
thread, which is all there.
Wasn't silver light. So, so
we've got that much, right?
You asked red composite or
thread and there they're both
sharing that single core in
the phone. However, they both
have very different purposes And
the composite is thread, like
you said, it does. Its
job is to facilitate smooth
animation. Right. But there's specific
kinds of animations that it
will basically offload to the
graphics processor. Yeah. So the
composite or thread, it's the
independent animations. Fred. So that's,
what's going to make your
app look beautiful running at
60 frames a second. And
that's because if you have
any really basic properties, you're
animating capacity, you know, the
scales transforms, rotates and planes.
All of those are going
to be handled on the
composite or thread, keeping the
UI thread just responsive and
ready to do anything else.
Okay. So that means that
you said planes and rotates.
So I can, the animations
that I was talking about
earlier, when I want to
turn a page or rotate
something away, that's all stuff
that the GPU will accelerate
in. And I, if I,
if I do it right
and I do the storyboard
correctly, it shouldn't be an
issue. Great. Yeah. You have
to market it for a
bitmap mode. That's the caching
mode. And once you do
that, we hand off that
texture, you know, to the,
to the GPU and it
just handles everything. So it's
really efficient. Okay. So that's
interesting. So I have, is
this a default or is
this something I have to
go out and, and set
myself this bitmap mode that
you mentioned, There's actually a
visualization setting. You can, there's
a flag of consent. And
so when you run it
on the phone, you'll see
kind of this heat map
and that'll show you, what's
currently cast and what's not,
No, A lot of things
will be set by default
cast mode. If you have
something inside like a list
box, we're going to automatically
add that property whenever it
makes the most sense, but
it's definitely something that you
can optimize in your app
as well. Ah, okay. This
is interesting. So it looks
like it's a application current
yada yada yada enable frame
rate counter. True. And then
it goes in and adds
this kind of cool star
Wars fan. So that's the
one that gives you the
pretty numbers. Then there's also
a separate one, which is
Casper's realizations Cash visualizations. Here
we go. Enable cash realizations
equals true heat map of
textures. That's awesome. Okay. So,
so then when I get
my app mostly working, I
go and I turn this
on and then this will
let me know if there's,
if there's something I'm doing
wrong in case I've made
an animation, that's too complex.
And suddenly the windows phone
GPU is not involved anymore.
Right. Right. I actually turned
them on, on your app
right now and place it
That's okay. Well it'll work
in the emulator. Yeah. Okay.
So let me do that.
I'll go into a, I
guess I go into app
initialized phone application and then
I'll put in application, current
host settings, cash realization, right.
Employee succeeded. Oh, okay. So
I have a list full
of that and everything is
suddenly blue. All of there's
like a blue background about
all of my list items.
And then I click on
them and then yeah. Every,
so everything in my app
is currently blue and I've
got, and I click go
ham everything's blue. What does
that mean? It means that
that current time that was
rendered, we haven't had to
touch the textures again since
then. Yeah. Some textures updated.
Do you actually see it
kind of toggled to the
next color in the series?
Okay. So blue, is it
blue is good or bad?
It was indifferent. So it's
just going to tackle through
colors. Okay. And as I
move around, everything is staying
is staying blue. It's not
actually like flashing if you
don't see it going from
blue to red to green.
And that means that you're
totally cast right now and
you're doing well. Okay. Cool.
All right. Good. Well then
I'm getting lucky with my
defaults then. Yeah. We're trying
to make it, you know,
a good experience for you,
but you should be aware
of it once you start
tuning it out. Okay. So
then what is, what is
fill rate? I know that
this comes up in, in
gaming. Yeah. So on the
far right of the screen,
do you currently have a
bunch of numbers? No, I
don't have any numbers here.
So this should be the
frame rate. All right. Let
me turn that on. So
that's enable frame rate, counter
equals true. Put that in
and rerun. It starts up
again. And the app runs.
Everything is blue and then,
Oh, okay. So in the
far right, it's kind of
hard to see. Let me
zoom in here. I've got
a bunch of zeros that
are red and yeah. Loose.
It looks like a weird
font. It's like a star
Wars font game. Well, do
you want to walk through
with all these members? I
mean, Yeah, sure. What do
we got here? Oh, one
of them just jumped. So
the first one is render
thread. That's the compositor. And
that's the one that we
want to have at 60
all the time. Yeah. This
one says 70, 71, 69,
66. So that's frames per
second For a second. And
in the emulator, a lot
of times it might be
over 60, but on the
phone you'll be capped at
60. Okay. And one thing
I noticed, if the number
says zero or number doesn't
change, that's just means there's
no animations happening right now.
So there's nothing, there's no
work happening. Okay. Second thread
is the UI thread, the
user interface thread. Okay. And
that was also 60 on
this machine. Yeah. And so
that's the most important thread
for Silverlight that's where all
the events are processed, touched
and adjusters, all of your
events and code for data
binding everything's on the UI
thread. So that's why you
want to make sure that
that thread is as free
as possible to do that
work. Okay. So then if
I see a drop in
that thread, then, then I'm
doing something wrong. Well, you're
going to see a drop
in that thread, you know,
regularly. Cause there's, there's a
garbage collector. That's going to
be kicked off from time
to time. There's data binding.
It's just, it's going to
happen. Just realize that if
it drops below 20 that
you know, you'll start to
see a degradation in performance.
Ah, okay. Okay. Okay. So
I just deployed it to
the app to the, to
the phone rather. So I'm
actually, I'm on an actual
phone now and I'm moving
it around 59, 60, 56,
69, 69. I is not
going to really see a
huge difference between 50 and
60. So those are great
numbers. Okay. All right. So
that's the first two. So
you've got the render frames
per second, the user interface
frames per second, then Texture
memory usage. So that one's
about 5,000 right now. Okay.
You know, that one, that
number is going to change
all the time and that's
just kind of an FYI
of how much memory is
being used. And I don't
know the exact, the memory
limits on your device, but
it's just something you can
see to recognize, have huge
textures. And yes. Sounds like
something I would care about
if I was doing a
game. Yeah, totally. The next
one is the surface counter
And that one's 28. Okay.
So that, one's actually the
number of textures that we're
storing and giving to the
GPU. So it's a good
number to have. If it's
really low, you need to
do some additional work to
cache, more UI elements. Okay.
And then the next dominant
number is one That's the
intermediate texture count. Okay. So
that's, that's just kind of
telling you how many different
layers are we having to
composite. So if you imagine
having kind of your in
sitting in Photoshop, you have
three different layers and they
all kind of overlap one
another. We might actually have
to generate a couple of
intermediate textures in order to
render that on the composter,
Fred. So the lower that
number, the better. Okay. And
then the last one is
fill rate, counter, according to
the book here. Super important
number. Okay. So what's your
number right there on the
phone 0.5. Oh, you're doing
great as I scroll around.
So it does that, is
that, let me guess, is
that telling me like I'm
feeling I'm basically redrawing half
the screen. Yeah, exactly. It's
telling you how many screens
are currently being drawn and
anything under two is good.
Oh wow. Okay. How many
screens Were being drawn per
frame? So, so how many
like, like if of, so
the value one value of
one would mean I redrew
the entire screen. Yeah. Yeah.
Let's say you had just
a picture that takes up
the exact screen resolution of
the device. That's going to
be 1.0 and that's fine.
That's really easy for the
hardware handle. But if you
also had, let's say another
picture you wanted to slide
in smoothly. It's probably sitting
a little bit to the
right of your screen and
all of a sudden you'll
have a full count of
2.0 because you've got that
whole other picture ready to
come in. I see. So
it's going to start getting
really interesting when I start
doing my animations later. Yeah,
definitely because you know, if
you want it to be
smooth, you're going to want
to have off screen visuals.
They might not be currently
in the screen, but they're
part of that fill rate.
Cause there's a Silverlight layout
pass happening. We have to
know how large the item
is, how to fit it
into the whole scheme of
things. So it's pretty important
to keep that number monitored
well, because once it's over
about 2.5, you'll probably see
your frame rates start to
drop from 60 frames down
to maybe 30 frames a
second and it'll get worse.
The more, you know, that's
on there. Okay. One of
the things that I, I
spent a lot of time
doing in the, in the
early couple of hours of
starting this application was I
ran around looking for images.
I wanted to, you know,
make my little application bar
have cool images. So I
went around and found all
of these different images and
they're all transparent PNGs. But
then I noticed that the
splash screen is a JPEG.
Why should I use, I
mean, I like PNGs. They
have transparency. They're really clear,
but they're also really big.
Why should I use a
PNG over a JPEG on
the phone? And how do
I keep things from being
really, you know, Jay Peggy?
Yeah. Well, that's, you know,
that's kind of part of
why we hire designers because
they know what they're doing
and there's huge performance differences
between the two. So we
can, you know, it's really
easy for the computer to,
you know, to rasterize that
JPEG and get it up
to the graphics unit. The
P and G is going
to take more work. Okay.
It's kind of this delicate
balance. You need to walk,
you know, if you want
transparency, obviously you need that
PNG. And so a lot
of your icons are probably
going to be PNGs, but
for your splash screen, we
want your app to start
as soon as possible. So
JPEG says, Hey, let's do
the least work we can
to get that splash screen
shown so we can do
the real work in the
background. I see, I see
that currently my application is
a black background with white,
but I thought it would
be cool to switch back
and forth between a black
background and white text and
a white background and black
text. I'm not sure whether
that's something that people are
gonna want to do. And
there's some interesting discussions on
different blogs about whether or
not you should have dark
images and light images. A
lot of people are saying
that you should take your,
your, your, your images. Like
I've got my transparent PNG
with my white text it's
background as is transparent. And
then just do the work
of the, we, you know,
the mirroring the inverting rather,
and switching it to a
lack on white and then
compiling in those resources. So
the application would be slightly
larger, but I've done the
I've done the work. However,
you know, programmers are always
looking to keep from repeating
yourselves. And some guys have
said, no, no, you should
just have one, one resource
for all of your, your,
your pretty buttons. And then
use them some kind of
a mask to do the
inverting at runtime. And then
another guy comes in and
says, no, no, no using
PNGs or for, for patches,
you should use everything in
XAML. You should take your
paths directly from illustrator or
blend and you should paste
them in there. And you
should draw all of your
buttons manually that way they're
vectors and they scale, and
you can switch them back
and forth. Now, I don't
know, I don't know much,
but it seems to me
that I should put that
work up front and actually
make these PNGs separately. Even
though it makes the app
slightly larger, I'm doing some
processing, some CPU work now
so that no one ever
has to do it. And
what these other guys are
proposing with the masking and
doing the work of inverting,
all of this stuff and,
or rest rationalizing everything themselves.
They're effectively saying, I want
millions of phones to do
the work that I wasn't
going to do upfront. So
settle a bet for me.
And tell me what you
think is just your opinion.
You know what, it's, it's
really a continuum. So I
think everyone wins at this
bet maybe, but man, we
keep saying that, you know,
Azure and the whole cloud
is there to do really
hard, really heavy lifting because
the cloud is just really
powerful. Don't do that on
the phone, do your crazy
processing there. It doesn't apply
to images. Obviously I'm not
going to rasterize my image
and insurer at startup, but
the messages, if you can
sit on your computer, you
know, your eight core computer,
there are six scores and
you can generate those PNGs.
That's just gonna be the
right call, I think in
most cases. Okay. So it
sounds like doing a mask
and some, some image processing
at startup, just because you're,
you don't want two copies
of images in your application
is, is as a better,
is a better strategy. Just
seems to me that the
work that it would be
required, you'd have to do
that every single time. Right.
Or you'd have to have
the, you have to save
them, I guess you could
cash them. Yeah. You can
always put them in isolated
storage, but that is additional
work. So, you know, there's
still reasons to use AML
as well though. You know,
the phone has the accent
color. So I think it's
blue by default. And so
if you change that to
pink or green, if you're
using XAML, it can actually
pick up that color and
use that in your house.
Oh, that's an interesting point
too. I have a little
thing in my application that
is unread kind of a
button right now. It's a,
a little image that sits
in a column inside of
my list that tells you
whether or not something has
been read or not. And
I've gone back and forth
about using the accent color,
but currently it's a PNG,
but it's just a PNG
of a circle with kind
of a yin yang thing.
Well, that's really easy to
do in XAML. And if
you haven't been mapped cast,
it's going to be quick
to do I see, and
then is it a bitmap
cash? Something that, so I
have like an image right
now. I have my list
box and inside it is
my, my open bracket image
and I just have to
go and say cash mode
equals Equals bitmap. Gosh. Yeah.
Okay. I see. And then,
then, then by default things,
aren't cast because you want
to take control of that,
You know, by default many
things aren't cached, but once
you're in a scrolling container
or a list box will,
will actually automatically apply it.
If it makes sense. That's
interesting. Is, is this something
that I should be thinking
about proactively or should I,
from a, from a larger
perspective, should I just make
my app and then make
my app fast? Or should
I be thinking about performance
all the time? I think
you need to think about
performance from time to time,
but make your app first.
And as long as you've
at least reviewed some of
these documents, you're cognizant of,
you know, what should I
be doing with these graphics?
And I think you'll be
fine to just from time
to time run your app
and think about it rather
than just not thinking about
it. You can sleep fine
at night. Yeah. I mean,
I guess, like I said
before, if I'm making a
game and I really care
about frame rate, that's important,
but in this case here,
it's going to be kind
of text boxes over data
and I'm going to be
processing stuff. It seems to
me like the performance on
the animation side is something
that I'm going to be
able to figure out. And
I could modify a different
elements by marking them as
caching. And I can experiment
with my different animation to
make sure I can pick
a smooth one. But these
two threads that you talked
about, that main thread and
the composer thread I can,
I have, I can have
other threads that I could
fire off background threads and
go off to the network
and download things while these
animations are happening. Yeah, yeah,
definitely. So you always want
to do like heavy parsing
of Jason or XML and
a background thread because that
keeps that UI thread open
to respond to gestures and,
you know, events that the
LMS has. And so you
use the background threads for
that and the composite threads
running the entire time. It's
giving you a beautiful 60
frames a second in most
cases. And so that's a
great thing that just isn't
in Silverlight and Silverlight, if
you were to block in
the UI thread, you wouldn't
see animation, or you can
actually block the UI thread
now that you'd want to
on the phone and you'd
get your animations are still
smoothly animating in the background.
Oh, really? So even if
I screw up and I,
and I start messing around
on the UI thread, if
I have a new background
things going on, it'll keep
going. Yeah. If you have
your animations done, right. It'll
just be really smooth. And
we've done a lot of
work to make sure that
it looks nice. Okay. And
this background threat, I know
I'm going to fire up
a background thread to go
and fetch my information for
my offline reader as it
should. I just keep, keep
using that thread and do
my parsing when it comes
back or should I fire
off yet another thread and
do parsing as a separate
worker thing? What can I
reuse one It's easy enough
to actually, instead of worrying
about doing threading, just using
the background worker, which is
actually built into the, the
whole platform and it's really
easy. It's got events, you
just kick it off and
it goes, Oh really? Okay.
So I don't need to
think about threading. I just
say background worker, and this
is, this, is this a
controller? This is a, a
helper method. Yeah. It's a
helper that's built into the
platform and it's actually inside
that performance document. There's some
examples of using it. Okay.
This is a, this is
actually a nice document. So
this is version 0.1, the
version that I have here.
So it sounds like it
will get revved if it's
0.1, but it's 26 pages
now, right? Yeah, exactly. You
know, something else I wanted
to say, you were talking
about having resources that were
images, right? Yeah. So resources
are the wrong decision for
windows phone apps. You actually
want to make sure they're
marked as content in your
app. Okay. Why is that?
This is because an embedded
resource is part of that
DLL that's loaded at startup
time and it goes through
the CLR. Okay. So imagine
you had some video of
Brittany Spears in there that was
three megs. You don't want
to load that at startup
time. You want to bring
it on demand only if
you actually want to watch
the video. So you Mark
market as content, and we'll
just pull it in when
you need it. Instead of
every time your app starts.
This is interesting because actually
I'm looking in my images
here and I have three
or four of them marked
as resource. So this is
interesting. The, the new images
that I added to my
list are marked as resource.
Now, if I go over
into my XAML, I refer
to some of these images
with a forward slash, and
then later on a little
differently, is there a particular
way to refer to something
as content versus as a,
a resource It's actually inside
those animal? The, if it's
a content, it'll just look
kind of like a simple
UI. And if it's a
resource, you'll see some other
crazies and you know, there's
component text in there. And
so it's really less about
those animal experience. It's more
about making sure that in
the little properties, window and
visual studio, that it's marked,
that that image is kind
of, Okay, so I'll be
able to refer to it
either way. So I've just
switched all of those from
content. That's interesting. I had
a bunch of images that
were set to resource, so
that may have been slowing
my app down a little
bit. Yeah. Very cool. This
is great. Do magic. It's
a lot of things to
know. Well, you know, there's
always a, I call it,
we call that concept count,
right. There's definitely a lot
to know, but I've talked
to, to Pete Brown and
Tim here, it's different guys
that know Silverlight and I've
talked to a bunch of
XAML people who've done server
light, but hadn't done the
phone. And they have said
that it's, if you have
server light skills that you're
going to find it very,
very comfortable. I mean, no
one who knows Silverlight has
complained to me about having
trouble picking up the phone.
So the issues that I'm
having are, are learning about
what, what XAML wants, and
because it's such a small
phone on a small screen
compared to a big, big,
complicated application, I'm finding that
the XAML in my, my
applications is a lot less
scarier than I thought it
was going to be. I
think I've got about 50
lines of XAML so far.
I'm sure it'll get more
when I start adding in
all my, my animations. Yeah.
Well, it's really simple. And
you know, I think even
people that don't know Silverlight
will be amazed at how
easily they can just kinda
start building apps. You know,
if you're a.net developer today,
it's really easy to at
least get started with that
simple app. Yeah. Well, I
want to tell you, I
really enjoyed reading your blog.
I know that your, your
full time job is dev.
You're not in a kind
of evangelist and you're not
know, I guess probably no
bosses care whether you blog
or not, but I really
do enjoy your blog. His
blog is Jeff got wilcox.name.
I'm sure that if you
search for Jeff Wilcox and phone,
you'll find that you've got,
definitely got a knack for
blogging. I really do appreciate,
and I hope that you
continue to find time to
put that information out there.
That will. Thank you. Alright.
Well, this has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.